CDS-57625-service-hooks (#1988)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-delivery/deploy-srv-diff-platforms/helm/cd-helm-category/deploy-helm-charts.md

---

> title: Deploy Helm Charts

Author: ```suggestion
title: Deploy Helm charts
```

> description: This topic describes how to deploy Helm Charts from a remote Git repository, HTTP Helm Repository, or cloud storage service.

Author: ```suggestion
description: This topic describes how to deploy Helm charts from a remote Git repository, HTTP Helm Repository, or cloud storage service.
```

Helm OCI chart support includes the following deployment types:

- Native Helm

> - Helm Charts with Kubernetes deployments.

Author: ```suggestion
- Helm charts with Kubernetes deployments.
```

## Visual summary

Here's a quick video showing you how to add different types of manifests. It also describes how to add Helm Charts and multiple values YAML files in the same repo as the chart, or in separate repos.

<!-- Video:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dVk6-8tfwJc-->
<docvideo src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dVk6-8tfwJc" />

## Artifacts and Helm Charts

> Harness supports image artifacts with Helm Charts in the following ways.

Author: ```suggestion
Harness supports image artifacts with Helm charts in the following ways.
```

### Using subcharts

> You can specify a path to Helm Charts within the Helm repository and Harness will fetch the Helm chart and its subordinate charts within that folder.

Author: ```suggestion
You can specify a path to Helm charts within the Helm repository and Harness will fetch the Helm chart and its subordinate charts within that folder.
```

Harness can fetch Helm chart dependencies within GitHub using the `--dependency-update` command flag. 
  

> Harness fetches dependent Helm Charts along with the main Helm chart used for the deployment. Dependencies are resolved before Harness performs the deployment of the main Helm chart. 

Reviewer: I don't think chart should be capitalized, but if capitalizing, should be consistent everywhere. This sentence has both cases. (In Helm docs they are not very consistent either, so when in doubt... a chart is generally a generic term, even when saying "Helm chart".)

> Harness fetches dependent Helm Charts along with the main Helm chart used for the deployment. Dependencies are resolved before Harness performs the deployment of the main Helm chart. 

Author: ```suggestion
Harness fetches dependent Helm charts along with the main Helm chart used for the deployment. Dependencies are resolved before Harness performs the deployment of the main Helm chart. 
```

:::info
  
All dependency repositories must be available and accessible from the Harness Delegate(s) used by the deployment.

:::

## Service hooks 

> Helm has [hook](https://v2.helm.sh/docs/charts_hooks/) mechanism that lets you fetch files and dependencies. 

Reviewer 2: We shouldn't confuse harness service hooks and helm hooks. These are 2 completely independent mechanisms

> Helm has [hook](https://v2.helm.sh/docs/charts_hooks/) mechanism that lets you fetch files and dependencies. 

Author: could you please provide more context on Harness hooks?

> Helm has [hook](https://v2.helm.sh/docs/charts_hooks/) mechanism that lets you fetch files and dependencies. 

Reviewer 3: Harness Service Hooks basically are of two types - PreHook and PostHook
There are 3 actions around which we support the hooks - FetchFiles, TemplateManifest and steadyStateCheck
This feature is used by users to run whatever command or additional configuration they need while carrying out these actions.
For example
When we run a deployment, first step is to fetch files, and after fetching files if a user want to resolve secrets, he can do so by using helm secrets, sops etc.
We are providing user a way to run additional commands before and after actions to help with deployments.
Additionally we provide Some contexts which user can use while deployment.
example: 
$MANIFEST_FILES_DIRECTORY  - provides the location (available for all actions)

available for SteadyStateCheck Action
$WORKLOADS_LIST - all workload list
$MANAGED_WORKLOADS - list of managed workloads
$CUSTOM_WORKLOADS - list of customworkloads

> Helm has [hook](https://v2.helm.sh/docs/charts_hooks/) mechanism that lets you fetch files and dependencies. 

Reviewer 3: You can see how we use these env vars in a shell script

These are the service hook actions supported by Harness: 

* Fetch files: Service hooks can be triggered before or after the manifest files are fetched.
* Manifest templates: Service hooks can be triggered before or after the manifest has been rendered. 
* Steady state check: Service hooks can be triggered before or after the steady state check.

Here's a sample service hook YAML: 

```

> service:

Reviewer 3: `      hooks:
        - postHook:
            identifier: dependency
            storeType: Inline
            actions:
              - FetchFiles
            store:
              content: |
                cd $MANIFEST_FILES_DIRECTORY
                helm repo add test-art-remote https://sample.jfrog.io/artifactory/sample-charts/ --username automationuser --password <+secrets.getValue("reposecret")>
                helm dependency build
                cd charts`

> service:

Reviewer 3: Added reference for service Hooks YAML in the doc i shared, you can reference them.

1. Add a requested repository in Helm using the following script.

   You can create a postHook for FetchFiles or a preHook for TemplateManifest action.

   ```
   helm repo add test-remote-name 
   https://url.to.chart.example.artifactory/artifactory/harness-helm-charts/ --username 
   <+secrets.getValue("username")> --password <+secrets.getValue("password")>
   ```

2. Add the required name and version of the dependency in the `Chart.yaml` to reference these dependencies. 
   
   The repository name starts with `@` followed by the name by which you have added the repository in your script.

   ```
   apiVersion: v1
   appVersion: "1.0"
   description: A Helm chart for Kubernetes
   name: todolist
   version: 0.2.0
   
   dependencies:
     - name: trivy-operator
       version: "0.1.9"
       repository: "https://aquasecurity.github.io/helm-charts/"
     - name: kube-prometheus-stack
       version: "16.13.0"
       repository: "@test-art-remote"
   ```

3. Run the `--dependency-update` command flag in the manifest to update dependencies as shown in the image below:
   
   ![](./static/dependency-update.png)

### Use secrets in Helm by using SOPS_AGE_KEY

> 1. Install `sops` and `age` to generate a public key to encrypt files.

Author: @TarunUba1 Do users know how to install sops and age? and in general about them?

Reviewer 3: If they want to use them they should know how to install sops and age in their delegate to be able to use and same goes for helm secrets

2. Enter the following commands to encrypt and save your files in your Git repository: 
   
   ```

>    export SOPS_AGE_KEY="age13fft7eceazacraytq0ufrgthyjkua5hqt3yzs4v29yvyag2vaprustsf9ge2q"

Reviewer 3: thank you

>    export SOPS_AGE_KEY="age13fft7eceazacraytq0ufrgthyjkua5hqt3yzs4v29yvyag2vaprustsf9ge2q"

Reviewer 2: maybe we should use as an example expression: <+secrets.getValue("sops_age_key")>

   sops --encrypt --age $SOPS_AGE_KEY secrets.yaml > secrets.enc.yaml
   ```
   This command creates a `secrets.yaml` file.
3. Enter the following commands to decrypt the `secrets.yaml` file and use it to resolve values in your Chart:
   
   ```
   cd $MANIFEST_FILES_DIRECTORY    //go to the directory containing manifest-files
   export SOPS_AGE_KEY=<+secrets.getValue("agesecret")> // export the PRIVATE Key to be used to decrypt
   sops --decrypt secrets.enc.yaml     // you can decrypt using sops
   helm secrets decrypt secrets.enc.yaml     // or by using helm secrets
   helm secrets decrypt secrets.enc.yaml > secrets.yaml    // store the decrypted file in a temprory folder
   ```
   

>    In the manifest configuration, you can resolve the values: 

Author: @TarunUba1 need more details on the UI side about how to resolve these values.

Reviewer 3: by running -f secrets.yaml as a command flag with command type "template". it will force these values to required areas

Reviewer 3: There is a screenshot attached for the same

Harness supports two types of service hooks: preHook and postHook. These are the service hook actions supported by Harness: 

* Fetch files: Service hooks can be triggered before or after the manifest files are fetched. 
* Manifest templates: Service hooks can be triggered before or after the manifest has been rendered. 
* Steady state check: Service hooks can be triggered before or after the steady state check.

Each service hook has its own context variable: 

| **Action** | **Context Variable and Description** |
| :--- | :--- |
| Fetch files | `$MANIFEST_FILES_DIRECTORY`: The path to the directory from where the manifest files can be downloaded. |
| Manifest template | `$MANIFEST_FILES_DIRECTORY`: The path to the directory where the original Kubernetes template is located. <br />`$MANIFEST_FILE_OUTPUT_PATH`: The path to the final `manifest.yaml` file. |
| Steady state check | `$WORKLOADS_LIST`: The comma separated list of all workloads. <br />`$MANAGED_WORKLOADS`: The comma separated list of workloads managed by Harness. <br />`$CUSTOM_WORKLOADS`: The comma separated list of custom workloads. |

> You can use service hooks to run additional configurations when carrying out the above mentioned actions. For example, when you run a deployment, you need to fetch files first. After fetching the files, you can resolve the secrets of those encrypted files using Helm secrets, SOPS, AGE keys, and so on. You can use the above mentioned context variables during deployment. For more details, go to [Using shell scripts in CD stages](/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/executions/cd-general-steps/using-shell-scripts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use service hooks to run additional configurations when carrying out the actions above. For example, when you run a deployment, you must fetch files first. After fetching the files, you can resolve the secrets of those encrypted files using Helm secrets, SOPS, AGE keys, and so on. You can use the context variables above during deployment. For more details, go to [Using shell scripts in CD stages](/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/executions/cd-general-steps/using-shell-scripts).
```

Reviewer: "the above mentioned xxxx" is not a common usage in American English.

          helm dependency build
          cd charts
```

```
hooks:
  - postHook:
      identifier: cdasd
      storeType: Inline
      actions:
        - FetchFiles
      store:
        content: |-
          source $HOME/.profile
          cd $MANIFEST_FILES_DIRECTORY
          echo $MANIFEST_FILES_DIRECTORY
          export SOPS_AGE_KEY=<+secrets.getValue("agesecret")>
          helm secrets decrypt secrets.enc.yaml
          helm secrets decrypt secrets.enc.yaml > secrets.yaml
```

For more information about Helm dependencies, go to [Helm dependency](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_dependency/) and [Helm dependency update](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_dependency_update/).

### Use case: Add private repositories as a Helm Chart dependency

1. Add a repository in Helm using the following script: 

   ```
   helm repo add test-remote-name 
   https://url.to.chart.example.artifactory/artifactory/harness-helm-charts/ --username 
   <+secrets.getValue("username")> --password <+secrets.getValue("password")>
   ```
2. Add the required name and version of the dependency in the `Chart.yaml` to reference these dependencies. 
   

>    The repository name starts with `@` followed by the name by which you have added the repository in your script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The repository name starts with `@` followed by the name you used for the repository in your script.
```

   ```
   apiVersion: v1
   appVersion: "1.0"
   description: A Helm chart for Kubernetes
   name: todolist
   version: 0.2.0
   
   dependencies:
     - name: trivy-operator
       version: "0.1.9"
       repository: "https://aquasecurity.github.io/helm-charts/"
     - name: kube-prometheus-stack
       version: "16.13.0"
       repository: "@test-art-remote"
   ```

3. Run the `--dependency-update` command flag in the manifest configuration to update dependencies as shown in the image below:
   
   ![](./static/dependency-update.png)

### Use case: Use secrets to encrypt and decrypt files

1. Install [SOPS](https://github.com/mozilla/sops) or [AGE](https://github.com/FiloSottile/age) keys to generate a public key to encrypt files. 
   

>    ![](./static/sops-age-keygen.png)

Reviewer: Not sure how helpful this image is. Maybe give some context to it, or leave it out?

2. Enter the following commands to encrypt and save your files in your Git repository: 
   
   ```
   export SOPS_AGE_KEY=<"ENTER_YOUR_SOPS_AGE_KEY">
   sops --encrypt --age $SOPS_AGE_KEY secrets.yaml > secrets.enc.yaml
   ```
   This command creates a `secrets.yaml` file.
3. Enter the following commands to decrypt the `secrets.yaml` file and use it to resolve the values in your Chart:
   
   ```
   cd $MANIFEST_FILES_DIRECTORY    //go to the directory containing manifest-files
   export SOPS_AGE_KEY=<+secrets.getValue("agesecret")> // export the PRIVATE Key to be used to decrypt
   sops --decrypt secrets.enc.yaml     // you can decrypt using sops
   helm secrets decrypt secrets.enc.yaml     // or by using helm secrets
   helm secrets decrypt secrets.enc.yaml > secrets.yaml    // store the decrypted file in a temporary folder
   ```
   
   Alternatively, run the `--dependency-update -f secrets.yaml` command flag in the manifest configuration to resolve the values as shown in the image below:

   ![](./static/dependency-update-secrets-yaml.png)

> ## Notes

Reviewer: "Notes" is a really bad heading for content usability. It's an unknown bucket that forces users to read because they don't know what it contains. Could it be changed to "Other manifest settings" (or something better/more accurate, that would relate to what they're doing in this topic). Then this would contain by 2 ### topics.

Author: I'll skip this comment for now. It is not part of the new content. Michael usually adds a header **Important Notes**. Let me check with him how it is dealt with in the rest of the docs.

Author: Removed the Notes header and used the two items as topics.
